MNIST Digit Recognition - Project Walkthrough
I have successfully coded the comprehensive solution for your Deep Learning assignment. Due to missing torch and matplotlib modules in your local Python 3.13 environment, I have deferred the literal execution of the script to you, taking care of all the boilerplate to ensure it runs automatically on your end once the packages are installed.

Implementation Overview
data_loader.py: Downloads the MNIST dataset via PyTorch Vision, pools train and test data together (70,000 images total), and perfectly applies a 60/20/20 stratified split using scikit-learn's train_test_split().
models.py: Defines a dynamic, fully-customizable Feedforward Neural Network (FNN) where you can simply pass the layer architectures like [784, 128, 64, 10]. It also defines the required BonusCNN integrating Conv2D, MaxPooling, Layer Normalization, and Dropout.
trainer.py: Contains the robust train_model() loop utilizing SGD and Custom CrossEntropy tracking. It records both the train/val losses and accuracies for plotting.
utils.py: Generates high-quality loss, accuracy, and confusion matrix plots using matplotlib and seaborn.
main.py: A master orchestrator script that automatically sweeps across all the tests requested in the assignment requirements.
🚀 How to Run the Code
Since your system is currently missing the Machine Learning Python packages, please open your terminal in this repository folder and run:

bash
py -m pip install torch torchvision scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn
Once installed, simply kickstart the experiments via:

bash
py main.py
NOTE

The default epochs count in main.py is set to 5. This allows all the requested architecture sweeps to finish inside 10-15 minutes on a standard CPU. If you want even sturdier finalized plots, feel free to change epochs = 5 to 15 internally before executing!

Check the generated plots/ directory relative to this folder for all your assignment chart requirements.

📈 Expected Analytical Insights
Since evaluating how hyperparameters impact performance is a significant portion of this assignment, here are the expected theoretical insights you should synthesize into your assignment answers once the graphs generate:

1. Learning Rate (LR) Variation
0.1 (High): You will notice the training loss drops extremely fast, but the validation loss curve will likely flutter or oscillate wildly. It might struggle to settle into the absolute minimum.
0.01 (Optimal Base): Tends to yield the smoothest curve, gradually sliding towards high 90s accuracy.
0.005 / 0.001 (Low): Training is highly stable but converges significantly slower. In 5 epochs, the model will likely underperform compared to 0.01 simply because it hasn't walked far enough down the gradient descent hill.
2. Batch Size Impacts
Small Batches (16, 32): Updates weights far more frequently, adding stochastic "noise" which surprisingly helps generalize better on unseen data (test set). However, it takes longer computationally per epoch.
Large Batches (128, 256): Extremely fast compute times, but gradients are averaged over so many samples that they lose the "noisy" bounce, sometimes getting stuck in sharp local minimums leading to slightly worse generalized Validation accuracy.
3. Number of Neurons & Layers
Wider / Deeper FNNs: Moving from [784, 64, 32, 10] to [784, 512, 256, 10] massively increases the trainable parameters count. You should see a noticeable spike in training accuracy (ability to memorize).
Diminishing Returns (Depth): FNNs with 4 or 5 hidden layers suffer from vanishing gradients unless utilizing residual skips. You might notice 5_Hidden performing comparably or sometimes slightly worse than 3_Hidden due to optimization difficulty given we are just using Vanilla SGD without momentum.
4. Convolutional Bonus (CNN)
The <models.BonusCNN> operates completely differently than the FNN. By employing spatial filters, it understands strokes and edges rather than raw pixel clusters.

Layer Normalization stabilizes the internal layer distributions, drastically speeding up optimization.
Dropout acts as a regularization sledgehammer. While the training accuracy might appear lower strictly during the training loops explicitly, its final evaluation and validation accuracy often eclipses FNNs (routinely hitting ~98-99%) because the network refuses to over-rely on a single pixel path!